# Changelog

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [0.2.0] - 2025-07-02

### 🚀 Features

- Setup intitial empty python project structure
- Add first docs
- Add shacl command to the CLI
- Expand instance tags from the spec.
- SHACL exporter functioning
- Add ariadne for loading and validating multiple graphql files with a given path. Update documentation for model validation and exporters
- First draft of VSPEC generation.
- First draft vspec converted with Seat example
- Improve to_vspec exporter and add Seat example of VSS
- Enhance to_vspec processing for nested types
- Add unit mapping for various measurement types in to_vspec
- Add new GraphQL types and update VSS Seat example
- Add test case and example of COVESA AMM presentation
- Update .gitignore file.
- Refactoring

### 🐛 Bug Fixes

- Missing vssTypes
- Remove unused IRI generation command from CLI
- Mypy errors for utils.py, to_vspec.py, and to_shacl.py
- Resolve mypy type checking errors and improve type safety
- Fix imports related to idgen
- Mypy changes on tests

### 🚜 Refactor

- Update GraphQL schema and dependencies
- Remove unnecessary lines in CONTRIBUTING.md and README.md
- Lines and formats, add figures.
- Common types and GraphQL files of example 0
- SHACL exporter working without expansion. Supported field cases are: ['NON_NULL', 'SET_NON_NULL', 'DEFAULT', 'SET']
- Improve handling of list types in SHACL property shape creation
- Remove example 0 files that are covered in another repo. Improve the directory structure.
- Remove iris module and update CLI import. Enhance modeling guide with output type examples.
- Move examples folder and do some clean up.
- Enhance CLI commands for exporting schemas. Minor clean ups.
- Clean up
- Improve logging and code readability in to_vspec and utils
- Organize examples/
- Add mypy for tests dir
- Temporarily update min percentage of test coverage to 70%
- Update main README ([#35](https://github.com/COVESA/s2dm/pull/35))

### 📚 Documentation

- Update CONTRIBUTING.md and README.md for clarity and consistency
- Add Mozilla Public License Version 2.0 LICENSE
- Use GitHub pages with content from docs-gen folder

### ⚙️ Miscellaneous Tasks

- Update uv.lock
- Add release.yml, cliff.toml, and .bumpversion.toml for automatic version bumps
- Rm installation of gh cli
- Trigger test release
- Update version of git-cliff
- Update to use branch name instead main
- Run on develop as test
- Bump version 0.1.0 → 0.2.0
- Remove redundant Release prefix from release title
- Also update CHANGELOG.md file and test on develop
- Fix duplicated version header
- Fix create tag after updating the CHANGELOG.md
- Merge bump version and update changelog and manually tag to have release on latest commit
- Write correct version in CHANGELOG.md
- Bump version 0.1.0 → 0.2.0

### ◀️ Revert

- "ci: run on develop as test" to only run on main after merge

<!-- generated by git-cliff -->

## [0.1.0] - 2025-02-20

### Added

- Everything (init)
